---
layout: post
title: Color Compass
date: 2013-08-27 16:20
author: coherentnoise
comments: true
categories: [My Projects]
---
I read somewhere that some biologists theorize that pigeons might perceive their magnetic sense in their eyesight due to the location of the magnetosensitive materials in their vision systems. I wonder what that might be like. The author of the article seemed to hint that it might show up as warping of the visual field along the magnetic "lines of force." To me that sounds akin to the warping of reality by vanishing point perspective, giving us information on length and distance. It also reminds me of how we sense all sorts of other physical facts through our eyesight (the only difference being that, as far as we know, it's just the light that we sense; everything else is how we perceive <em>changes</em> in that light). For example, an astute observer can get a pretty good idea of time of day, time of year, and even temperature just by looking out the window.

Besides the fact that we all carry compasses in our pockets in the form of smartphones, which certainly have become basic extensions of our senses, artists have devised ways for people to gain a magnetic sixth sense. My favorite is the guy that inserted a magnet in his finger. With that magnet he can tell what material certain things are made of by touching them and he can feel live electrical current in wires and appliances as vibrations. He can <em>feel</em> magnetism.

Without going so far as to slice my finger open, I have devised a way to visually perceive magnetism, in this case in the form of compass heading. Let's get back to our friend the pigeon. For all we know, the pigeon perceives magnetism as a color cast. That would be a lot easier to imagine as a human.

Compass heading is often referred to in terms of degrees from north. You've probably heard this in war movies. Similarly, in the HSV and HSL color models used mostly on computers (graphic designers will know what I'm talking about), color, or hue, is represented as an angle around the color wheel. Even if you're not familiar with the HSV color picker in Photoshop, you will recall the color wheel. Now imagine laying the color wheel on top of the compass rose, with north and red aligned. Now you have colors that correspond to directions.

So, after all that, I've been working on a color compass but have been too shy and lazy to keep you up to date on its progress.

Check out the code at <a title="The Color Compass is Almost There on Pastebin" href="http://pastebin.com/Cek4T0aZ" target="_blank">Pastebin</a>. In my final version I'll have a nice, big documentation section at the beginning for you all.
